Now we're in the spring of 1968 in Pakistan.
Which was a year after Ayub had made this decision with these three things, fertilizer, credit, and the pricing.
Right.
Just with the seed from those 3,300 hectares, he had enough so that it was creating a tremendous impact.
And...
I said that they were either self-sufficient or close to us.
Ford Foundation, I think, prematurely transferred Narvaez to Lebanon, Arsvik to Lebanon.
Hansen had gone a year earlier to Africa.
Havener was brought from East Pakistan over to West.
The current was the director of the Senate.
And so, I was writing this report that they were either self-sufficient or close to it.
And, of course, immediately this damn political... I was there for a week or so, writing on this report, and the campaigning started.
Oh, there were riots and whatnot.
Especially down in Karachi, there'd been an outbreak of smallpox and Ayukon was a very strong advocate of family planning.
And so they'd started to vaccinate children, the smallpox outbreak.
And one of these demagogues, Butoh, who later became president,
Not then, but another election, and was finally... Taken care of IZ.
Yeah, but anyway, he started the rumor around that this was just camouflage, that what was actually happening, Ayub was sterilizing all of these little girls.
All of that kind of stuff, and Bashani who was trained with Mao over in East Pakistan, just stirring up this.
By that time, but the whole countryside quiet, except in the cities, all of this nonsense.
The last day when I was just finishing my report, the harvest was just starting.
This bunch of sophisticated Harvard Ford Foundation economists came in, they said, will you back us?
on cutting the price of wheat from 22 rupees a mound to 18.
I said, hell no, I won't.
They said, we won't have enough money to buy this thing.
Then I said, well, turn up the printing presses.
If you want to destroy the faith in the government, now all you've got to do is to cut from 22 to 18 after you've promised them this.
And with all of that nonsense that's going on in this political campaign since the UB,
has resigned and you'll blow the lid off.
And I refused.
I wrote the report and turned it in.
Went back to Mexico.
And the first of August I got a hurry up call from Yaya Khan, who was the general that took over in a coup when the things started blowing up.
Well, he took over before the elections.
And then the elections were cut off.
The rioting got out of hand and all of this.
and got a telegram to come immediately.
I went over and walked into his office.
He was a brutal bastard.
When was this, about 67?
This was 68.
August of 68.
Walked into his office and he really dressed me down.
He said,
You just wrecked me.
He said, you said we were self-sufficient or essentially so.
He says, the way things are, I'm going to have to go out and import two million tons of wheat.
And I says, I don't believe it.
Let me see what's happened.
I said, give me a week.
So I went, I wired Narvaez to come from Lebanon.
I wired Anderson to come from India.
Meanwhile, I started checking around what was happening, and the drawdown on government stocks, warehouse stocks, was twice the monthly consumption.
Speculation.
They had the government over the para.
And when Nacho and Len arrived, we started going to the big farmers.
In India, there are a lot of big landowners.
It's not like... Pakistan.
Or in Pakistan, excuse me.
It's not like India.
We started to grow some of these big guys that we'd known for the last three or four years.
Asked them how much grain they harvested, what price they got for it.
They said, we haven't sold it yet.
I said, what do you mean?
I said, hell, they cut the price from 22 rupees to 18 rupees.
We still got it.
So this was going on by all the big guys sitting there holding it, and this provoked fear in the government, and they were drawing down the stocks, and hell, it was just a complete chaos.
So the three of us... They brought it upon themselves.
So the three of us rewrote the report, took it in, handed it to Yaya, General Yaya Khan, and told him that that report was probably
they were probably still self-sufficient or so damn close that it made no difference.
But that when they cut the price from 22 to 18, we'd never moved into the market and then people in the grain marketing, knowing that the government was under pressure, was starting to buy at the government control price and where they were going to hold it and feed it into the market later to make a killing on this, this is what's happened.
He's a rough-talking guy in the first place.
He wasn't like you, but a very cultured person.
This guy was a, he was an alcoholic also.
He threw down the report and he cursed and damned.
That's bad when you got one of those.
And cursed and jumped up and down and he said, those damn Harvard economists.
He says, they came in here shortly after you left, wrote this report, and told me I had no choice except to drop it from 22 to 18.
I told him that I refused to go along with them.
And we left with him fuming, and he called them in and fired them all out of the country.
And then what happened?
What was the result?
What happened after the chaos?
Did they ever raise the price or what happened?
Yeah, they got it out from that harvest.
But then all the political chaos... So they didn't raise the price back up?
The government did?
But not completely.
It was kind of a compromise.
Up to 20 or something.
So then the large landowners started to...
But they destroyed the faith and government at the same time.
Right, and they had already ordered two million tons.
Well, they never took delivery on that.
Oh, okay, okay.
Were they almost self-sufficient in the long run then?
But then political chaos set in, the separation of East and West, Pakistan, and with the new government, we didn't get the fertilizer and a whole series of things.
So they never reached full self-sufficiency until...
well, whatever it was, 70, mid 70s or something.
But they could have been there and stayed there from 68 on if it hadn't been for political chaos in this case.
And of course India got a little later start and there was still the fight there.
I was mentioning when we came in, when they ordered in 67,
the 18,000 tons and planted it, and it was beautiful.
And after Swami Nathana and Anderson and I had spent most, and S.P.
Kohli, their coordinator, spent most of the month looking at this, we got a telegram from the Minister of Food.
and agriculture, S. Subramanian, who will be here at that water conference.
He was the guy that made the tough decision on importing those 18,000 tons of seed.
To stop at the tractor, let's see, what's the name of it?
Tractor factory is about 60 miles out from
Escort tractor factory from Delhi on our way back the last day because there was a Dinner given in the honor of the Polish ambassador at that tractor factory They were producing about a 30 38 horsepower beautiful little tractor escort It was all made in India except the transmission which came from Poland so the Polish ambassador was the guest of the founder and
The press, of course.
The Delhi press was all there.
It was a big to-do.
And Anderson saw nothing.
Coley and I came in just before they were sitting down to lunch.
We came into the tractor factory.
The patios out there were filled with these newly painted 35 horsepower tractors.
They weren't selling them.
So the ambassador talked and President Nanda talked.
Then the president, just before he signed off, this was after lunch, he said, maybe Dr. Borlaug would like to say a few words, and I figured, hell, I'll never have a better podium than this one.
And so I said, yes, I would.
I said, you know, we've traveled the last month, and there's no doubt now about what this thing is going to fly.
If we have three things, one, fertilizer of the right kind and in sufficient quantities.
Imported in the short run with provisions made for manufacture here.
Credit for that little guy to buy it.
Pay for it at Harvard.
And a price announced before planting, like had been done in Pakistan before, two years before, to reflect the price of the international market.
Not 60% like they've been paid all down through time.
And if this happens, Mr. Nanda, all those tractors out here are going to disappear before the next planting season and you won't be able to catch up on back orders for years to come.
And there was a great hee-haw, hee-haw laughing.
And I said, I just wish now that I were a member of your Lakh Saba.
That's their house, the lower house.
It would be like chamber deputies.
And I said, I would stand up
Every 15 minutes, irrespective of what was being discussed and out of order screaming in a loud voice, what we need now is more fertilizer.
Well, this was pretty good press or the newspaper people, so they smeared it all over the headlines the next day.
I went to see the minister the next day, which was the 30th of March.
68.
And we told him what we had seen.
It was fantastic.
And I said, now if you get the fertilizer credit, and if you establish that price, like your friends to the West have done two years ago, why nobody can stop this.
And I said, moreover.
And then I suddenly found out I should have known.
Mr. Subramaniam said, I can't help you.
I lost my seat in the election last month.
That was the first time the Congress party lost 40% of its seats.
He said, I was one of the casualties.
I was too involved in this weed program.
I'm out tomorrow night at midnight and I can't help you.
But he said, I believe you.
He said, I want you to, when are you leaving?
I said, tomorrow night at midnight in Pan America.
of Mexico.
He said, I want you to talk to the Deputy Prime Minister, Ashoka Mehta, whom I'd never met and he was pretty much on the left of center.
And I want him to tell you what you have told me.
And I told Subramaniam, I said, you know, I knew that the Congress party had taken a beating in the discussions, but I didn't know that he'd lost SE.
I said, you know,
The shellacking that the Congress party took last month is nothing compared to what's going to happen soon if we don't have fertilizer now and a fair price, because a million people know what can be done.
They've seen it.
And they'll throw out the whole party.
He said, you're talking too late.
They threw me out last month, and I'm out tomorrow night at midnight.
And so he said, I want you to talk to Shokometa.
So he set up the appointment at six o'clock in the afternoon, Swami Natan and I. Anderson wasn't invited just as well.
And before we went in, and as I was leaving Sura Maniam's office, I had my hand on the door and Swami Natan was shaking hands.
He said, Dr. Borlaug, you'll be just as blunt with a Shokometta as you are with me.
He needs to hear the truth.
I never met the guy, but I knew that he was a sort of a pinko on the left.
Even though Mrs. Gandhi was fully in favor of this and had put out this commemoratory stamp six weeks before the wheat revolution, she wouldn't make this kind of a decision because she didn't have the competence, her confidence in her competence in agriculture, except as a general policy role.
So we walked in to Shoka Metta's office.
How do you spell his name?
A-S-H-O-K-A, then M-E-T-H-A.
And his official position was?
He was Deputy Prime Minister.
Oh, okay.
And so, before we walked in, I told Swami Natham, I said, you better not get involved in this discussion.
I'm going to follow.
suggestion of Subramaniam and it may get pretty stormy.
Now it may throw me out, but you and Anderson got to keep it going.
The wheat revolution going if I get thrown out.
And walked in and told him what we'd seen the next month and how many hundreds of thousands or maybe a million farmers had seen what could be done.
But it would all depend now on government policy, availability of fertilizer at a reasonable price, credit for the little farmer to buy it and pay for it at harvest, and a fair price for the grain announced before harvest.
And unless those are forthcoming now, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you won't sit in that chair a year from now.
They'll throw you out, just like happened to the other 40% of the Congress party in the last election.
He got red in the face and started to talk in a loud voice and I kept talking in a louder voice and we both went on this way, irrational for probably seven or eight minutes until we both ran out of breath.
Then quieted down and talked about it and why we believe this.
He kept saying, but we can't do this, we don't have the funds.
You've got to find the funds.
And moreover, for the long run, you've got to establish more production here in the country.
And I said, you've been negotiating with a number of companies, and you better fund some joint companies with private Indian capital, government Indian capital, and if need be, foreign
private capital, government of India capital, whatever mix.
I said, you have to find the way.
I said, Mexico has done this in joint venture.
Fertilizer capital plant investment.
I said, you can if you'll find the way.
And then he went into a big tirade that you don't understand our government.
We're pretty socialistic and we can't have private capital.
And I said, well, you're going to have to make the decision to remember what's going to happen to your party if you don't have the fertilizer.
We left pretty good friends.
And I kept saying, you know, your friends to the West have done this and so on.
That hurt him some more.
He certainly wouldn't want to emulate the Russian production of grain.
No.
And so we left.
I left Mexico, or for Mexico at midnight, and about ten days or two weeks later I got a lot of clippings from the headlines of the next morning's paper.
of all the main press in India, sent by Rockefeller Foundation, Ford Foundation, by Anderson.
I don't remember who sent it from the Ford.
But anyway, the essence was big wheat harvest begins.
The government of India has changed its policy as of last night at midnight when, unbeknown to me, all
negotiations for joint sponsorship of additional fertilizer production capacity, which was to have been canceled last night at midnight, 31st of March, has been left open for further bargaining, at least till the end of the year and perhaps longer.
And that was it.
We started building fertilizer plants and all sorts of things happened.
Once that ball started, of course all along there was this criticism of the rich richer and the poor poorer and these dwarf wheats won't produce enough straw and the oxen and the bullocks will starve to death.
That the early ones were red grains, that the people won't eat them.
I went through all of that agony and listened to all of that nonsense.
That the farmers are ultra conservative.
They're not like the Mexican farmers
bunch of nonsense one right after another and then after this was going then all of the critics from the academia in the Western world especially started talking about the second generation problems that we didn't plan ahead for warehouses that this that and the other hell unless you change production you couldn't plan for warehouse I tried to tell them about that and they'd laugh at me
But I think that what happened was a lot of these fancy planners got their nose so much out of joint.
They were saying it couldn't be done.
And then when it happened, then they had to pick us apart just like some, find everything else that was wrong.
Like children.
Because they were going to plan us into the happy hunting ground.
We got there just scrambling.
Well, in a sense, though, you were planning, too.
Yeah, but they didn't give us credit for that because we didn't have... When I started in India and Pakistan, I had to... This was a bonus contention from the beginning.
They said, where's your report?
And I said, well, give me half an hour.
And I scribbled down about six lines and that was it.
They had these massive big reports.
In Pakistan, for example, the Huntington company did the...
Let's see, which fifth term report would it have been?
55 to 60.
It would have been the plan for the third five-year term.
The whole economic survey done by Huntington's Limited of London.
It had 32 volumes, two around agriculture.
And what they recommended was that...
They should spend a minimum in agriculture because there could be no payoff at least until 1985 at the earliest.
This was 1965 or so.
And of course Ayubad already made the tough decision.
He didn't know that plan was in the making.
When the draft, they said there can be no change until 1985 at the earliest.
So invest as little as you can in agriculture just to keep peace, nothing more.
And they went on and on and on about this.
And before that report, the agricultural part was never published.
That was the draft.
And how long did it take to, well, to increase the production?
In India?
Yeah.
Let me see.
Where are my tables?
Well, it was gradual from then on.
And it went up to 45 million tons this last year.
From 11 million, the average production in India.
From 1961 to 1966.
Average was just under 11 million tons.
Last year, that's about 400 million bushels.
Last year, it was a billion 650 million, about 45.1 million metric tons.
More than a four-fold increase that took place from 67, when the impact started to come, until last year, 84.
Pakistan went from about three and a half, or about, yeah, somewhere around there, from that 61 to 66 to about 13, year before last.
I don't have last year's figures yet.
I'll show you the graph here.
Is India self-sufficient yet?
Yes, it became self-sufficient for the first time in 1979.
It's been self-sufficient in wheat.
The rice started catching on also two or three years later than the wheat and they have been self-sufficient in basic grains
for all of that period.
As a matter of fact, they're exporting in a small amount.
India is exporting some rice now?
Wheat, mostly.
Oh, wheat?
Goodness.
To the Soviet Union, I suppose.
Some of them.
But some to Vietnam and places like that.
Yeah, closer.
The total grain production last year
Well, this was 84 harvest, yeah.
151 million metric tons.
But let me see if I can find it.
For India.
The production last year was 34 in a fraction million tons more than that base period of 61 to 66.
And that was sufficient
to provide 65% of the calories and protein for an additional 250 million more people.
The value, additional value of that, or the value of that crop last year was $3.3 billion.
What does this mean for starvation in India?
What has this meant for the problems that they had with starvation?
Well, there are two problems whenever you talk about food in these countries.
One is to produce enough, and the second is to distribute it equitably.
And in India,
Despite the fact that there's plenty of grain available in the warehouses, you still see hungry people who are buying just enough to get by on because of unemployment, underemployment, lack of purchasing power.
China has made fantastic progress, but there you see better equity of distribution.
Why is that?
Because of the government?
Because of the system.
And did China eventually accept some of your wheat also?
Yes, but you have to remember that in China most of the wheat is winter wheat.
But they imported about 5,000 tons of Mexican wheat seed for growing in the south and in areas close to the coast where the winter is less severe and up in the Manchurian provinces where the
Plantings are made in this time of the year, early April, as soon as the frost goes through.
I had to see if I can find it.
Here's a table that's where I can take it.
This is Indian rice.
I've got to find it for wheat.
I said 3.3 billion.
It's 6.8 billion dollars of wheat.
So as far as wheat production in Pakistan from 1965 down to 1983,
we can see that it increased about 250% per acre.
That's about what it looks like.
From 760 kilograms per hectare to 1,730.
composite effects, you see, of both yield and more area.
One thing that doesn't show there also is the multiple cropping.
See, these weeks were early enough so that a lot of that land now, with the use of fertilizers, grows a summer crop also.
Rice or bean crop.
So they can get two crops in a lot of areas that they haven't been able to before.
Right.
Now as we can
keeping from getting complacent.
Yeah.
Can we keep these graphs right with the interview?
Sure.
How's your voice?
We better quit.
Testing, testing.
Today is April 26th.
1985.
This is another interview with Norman Borlaug.
This is a test.
I've been here now.
I've been this in my sixth year.
Sixth?
You're a real Texan by this time.
Today is April 26th, 1985.
We are continuing our interviews with
Norman Borlaug.
Last time we talked a lot about India, and there was one question going back over some of the things that we talked about that I wasn't quite sure about, then I want to move to Egypt.
And the one question that I wasn't so sure about was a discovery in grain at Purdue University in 1964.
I think Bickle mentions this in Facing Starvation.
And would you discuss that discovery and what impact that had on your work and how it correlated or disagreed with your work?
Well, you're referring to the high lysine, high tryptophanum, maize varieties, opaque too.
This was a discovery that was made
by a young man by the name of Lynn Bates when he was studying... Bates, B-A-T-E-S, L-Y-N-N.
When he was studying under Dr. Mertz, the biochemist, trying to find out if there was genetic variation in maize for the two most limiting essential amino acids in maize, corn.
And he found the...
He had analyzed many samples, and when he analyzed this one that had been called opaque 2, because that was a genetic character that had been studied several decades before and used for mapping a point on the chromosome.
But it was never realized then that it had any
But when this particular maize was analyzed, it had much higher, nearly double the levels of lysine and tryptophan, which are the two most limiting essential amino acids in the case of maize.
So there was great enthusiasm after this, and there was a lot of research activity.
Well, first let me say, so when this particular kind of maize, it was in a very poor type, but when they had sufficient sample, the chemical analysis bore out what you would expect in
nutritional value.
When it was fed to rats and compared to normal maize without any other source of protein added, they grew at a much faster rate.
Eventually it was tested out also once they'd multiplied so they had sufficient seed on swine, pigs, and again it proved that it had
much higher biological value.
And finally, it was proven on two children, or several children, at the infant's hospital in Columbia, in Del Valle, I guess it was.
Anyway, one of the medical centers in Columbia, South America, where the
Youngster or youngsters, one in particular that was very advanced stages of kwashiachor protein deficiency, malnutrition, was given this.
There were other children who were given ordinary maize, and she began to recover.
Of course, the others had to be taken off the diet that they were on, but it became clear that this had significance.
Then the problem was how to get this into commercial corn varieties.
There was great activity in the U.S., but it was not as simple as it appeared on the surface, because this particular corn, the opaque two,
had very soft kernels, which meant that even after you crossed it with a good variety and you had the same size ear, same number of kernels approximately, the kernel also was very fluffy starch, less dense.
And the result was that it yielded 20, 25, even 30 percent less because of the less density of the kernel.
And then, it being soft, it had other disadvantages.
It was attacked more by insects and also by ear rots, both in the field and in the warehouse in the case of insect damage.
Many university programs in the U.S.
and also the hybrid corn companies started out with fur or tiller.
get this incorporated.
But at that time, everyone thought it was fairly simple and turned out to be very complex.
Our team in Mexico, in the other half of the house, see our CIMIT, the International Mason Wheat Center, has one that's one half of the house works on small grains, which was a section that I was in charge of, wheat, barley,
oats and well let me say it by the time it was the International Center primarily wheat and triticale and the other half is corn mace and so dr. Sprague and his workers started in on this but they had very good chemical and analytical support from the beginning and as a matter of fact dr. or this was before he had his degree Lynn Bates who had been at
when they found this.
He spent, I think, about a year and a half or two years with us when we were getting our laboratory set up, and he and Dr. Evangelina Viegas worked out the techniques for working very closely with the breeders in the development of these corns.
It's been a long, painful process, but now there are some that are indistinguishable from ordinary maize from the standpoint that they will produce as much as the normal, but they still have the benefits of higher nutritional value.
They are now being incorporated into hybrids also in Mexico.
They are just going out into commercial production in a number of countries.
Guatemala for example is pretty well along in this in some of the varieties that are grown in lower elevation Mexico is beginning to multiply some and it's interesting that the southern two southernmost provinces in China already using these that were developed in Mexico and they are incorporating it into
varieties to cover many other parts of China China you see unbeknown to most people is the second largest producer of corn in the world after the US I didn't know that either and as a matter of fact you know China has made fantastic progress in the last 10-12 years in improving its agriculture it of course has
for a long time been the number one producer of rice.
It's the second in corn production.
And this year, it's highly possible that they will displace the Soviet Union as number one wheat producer.
They were only about three million tons short last year.
And it's interesting to see how much progress they've made in their agriculture.
Now to sort of get off the topic and to follow along on this China issue.
So let me just wind up this high nutritive value maize.
It has been shown that this is feasible now and as a matter of fact when we had about two and a half years ago, I guess it was, Dr. William Brown, the ex-
president of pioneer hybrids we asked him to make a critical survey of where we were and whether this was about to be achieved and he made a oral report after he'd been there ten days or so and he said well you've shown this can be done the rest of us gave up and the reason we gave up was that we didn't have the right linkage between the laboratory and the
geneticist who was doing the job in the field.
He says, now we've got a lot of other things that need to be done, but we'll go back at it and get it into our hybrids when the time is right.
It's been demonstrated that it's feasible.
So, now the private seed companies are distributing and selling it.
They will be.
Yeah.
Okay, let's just, now let's, we're going to get, let's go to China a little bit later.
I want to move to India.
I'm not, sorry, not India.
We've already been to India.
I want to move to Egypt.
Okay.
And I want you to discuss the problems and the issues and the results, and then I'd like to talk a little bit about the differences between Pakistan and India versus a different culture, Egypt.
Well, my experience in Egypt...
is more limited than in a number of the other countries.
I've visited there quite a few times, and we have had quite a number of young Egyptians who have come to Mexico to work with us.
But I have never been as directly involved in Egypt as in many of the other near Middle East countries or Latin American countries.
It's interesting from my point of view to look at Egypt, now I'm not talking about the culture now or its agriculture, but if we turn back the time clock to shortly before World War II, the two examples that were held up as sort of a hopeless situation because of land population
per capita arable population and population growth.
The two cases that were frequently referred to as hopeless, or at least very serious, was Egypt and Japan.
Yet, when we look at the two today,
they are in very different situations.
Japan has become a highly industrialized nation with one of the highest standards of living per capita incomes, whereas Egypt is still in the doldrums.
It's still struggling along.
The population has grown.
Even though they brought in a lot of new irrigated land with the Aswan,
The situation has not improved greatly.
As a matter of fact, I think it's more or less the same.
There's miserable poverty.
They're deficient in basic food grains.
And yet, if you compare their yields in the case of wheat, it's much higher than most of the
African Near Middle East countries, but it has been so for quite a long time because of that irrigation and their early use of irrigation water with rather decent cultural practices.
Fertilizer has come in, of course, increasingly in the last couple of decades, but the
Pressure on the land, considering that it's still got a good percentage of its total population in agriculture, is such that they haven't been able to improve their situation nearly so much as the standard of living in Japan.
My contacts there, in the early times, I found, I think I mentioned, when I was finally invited to India in March of 60, February of 63.
Prior to that, for two years, we had this training program.
going for young scientists' hands-on training in Mexico at CIMINT.
That was before CIMINT.
I have to be careful.
That was after the program had been the original cooperative Mexican government Rockefeller Foundation program had completed its work.
Several of us
affiliated with that program were still based in Mexico, asked consultants and working directly with the new Mexican organization that had assumed the responsibilities, the National Institute for Agricultural Investigation, INEA.
And it was during that time
I didn't know what was going to happen to me.
This is early 1960s?
60.
This was in 59 and 60 and 61.
And as a matter of fact, I, during this period, seriously considered going with the United Fruit Company to see what could be done about Fusarium wilt disease on bananas in Central America.
looked at it seriously, and then there were discussions in the Rockefeller Foundation about what's going to happen to the people who finished their job in the Mexican program.
And there was an apparent great need for soybeans varieties that would fit the semi-tropics and tropics.
So, I talked to Dr. Al Mosman, who was then in charge of the Agricultural Sciences in the Rockefeller Foundation, and I said, you know, there's a great need for some really aggressive work on soybeans for the tropics and near tropics.
I see the need, and I'd like to do this with your support.
if the foundations interest them.
And he and Harar, and I suppose Wardman, discussed this, I'm sure, over several weeks.
And finally they decided, no, this couldn't be because I had too much experience in another crop.
And this was, you see, when the situation was growing real critical in Pakistan and India in 1960.
And so, they suggested instead, they contacted FAO.
They were interested in having a reading on the whole wheat programs from Morocco to India.
And so, I was commissioned, I suppose,
It was in 1961, and I spent from... You were commissioned by the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations.
I was commissioned or assigned from the Rockefeller Foundation to work with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations to make this survey of what the problems were from Morocco to India.
Primarily on wheat, but anything I saw on agriculture in general.
And so I visited all of those countries at that time.